# **0. Open a terminal window**

Open a terminal window or Repl, where you can practice using the command line.

On Mac, you can do this by searching for "Terminal" in your Applications folder or using the keyboard shortcut "Command + Space" and then typing in "Terminal".

On Windows, open Cmder if you installed this as part of the prerequisites, or if you installed the Linux subsystem for windows, you can run WSL or follow the instructions described in the video. Alternatively, you can use Cygwin or the gitbash shell to practice Linux commands, or if nothing is available or working on your machine, please use Repl for today.

If you are running into any challenges with this, reach out to one of the teachers.

# **1. Move to the parent directory and back**

- Print your working directory
- Move into the parent directory, if there is one.
- Move back into the directory you came from.

Hint: if your original working directory path looked something like `folder1/folder2/folder3`, then for this task, you want to move to `folder1/folder2` and then back to `folder1/folder2/folder3`.

# **2. Create a redi folder**

Let's create a folder to store the work from this session.

- Navigate to the place where you would like this folder to be located. The current working directory is fine, but you can also navigate to your desktop or another folder where you keep course work.
- Create a new directory (folder) titled `redi-2021-09-16`
- Move into this new directory and print your working directory. Double check that your working directory now includes `redi-2021-09-16`.

# **3. Create some files**

Now let's create some files to go in this new directory.

- Create an empty file called "test1.txt" using the `touch` command.
- Create a second file called "hello.txt" which contains the phrase: "hello, my name is YOUR_NAME_HERE!". (Replace YOUR_NAME_HERE with your name :)) Hint: use the `echo` command and the `>` operator to do this.
- List the files that are in the directory, and make sure that it looks something like:
    
    ```bash
    test1.txt hello.txt
    ```
    
- Append the line "How are you doing?" to the file "hello.txt"
- Print the contents of the file and make sure that it looks something like:
    
    ```
    hello! my name is YOUR_NAME_HERE!
    How are you doing?
    ```
    

# **4. Move these files into a new directory**

Let's organize the directory that we are in by putting some of the files in a new location.

- Create a folder (directory) called `test-files` in the `redi-2021-09-16` folder
- List the contents of the directory that you are in and make sure that it looks something like:
    
    ```bash
    test1.txt hello.txt test-files
    ```
    
- Move `test1.txt` into the `test-files` directory.
- List the contents of `test-files` and make sure it contains only `test1.txt`, and list the contents of `redi-2021-09-16` to confirm that `test1.txt` has been moved.

# **5. Copy files and directories**

- Copy of `hello.txt` into the `test-files` directory. (Hint: this can be done in one command by copying the file to the proper location, or by creating a copy and then moving the file.)
- Rename the original `hello.txt` to `original-hello.txt`. (Hint: "renaming" is the same as moving a file to a new file path.)
- Make a copy of the `test-files` directory named `test-files-copy`.
- List the contents of `test-files-copy` and make sure that it contains both `test1.txt` and `original-hello.txt`.

# **6. Delete files and directories**

Be careful with this one! Please double check the command with one of the teachers before removing anything, since **anything removed via `rm` cannot be retrieved**!!

- In the `test-files-copy`, delete the `test1.txt` file.
- Confirm that `test-files-copy` contains only `original-hello.txt`.
- Delete the entire `test-files-copy` directory.
- List the contents of the `redi-2021-09-16` directory and make sure that the `test-files-copy` directory is gone, but that the original `test-files` directory and other files are still present.

# **(Optional) 7. Additional Practice**

These are additional challenge tasks that are meant to be extra challenging, in case the previous tasks went by more quickly than expected! :)

- Use the man-pages and Google to understand how to use the `grep` command. Use this command to search for occurrences of the text "my name is" in the `redi-2021-09-16` directory. (Hint: you can use the `r` option to do this)
- Create a journal/diary as a group with the following structure: the `journal` folder should contain `year` folders on the first level. Within a `year` folder are `month` folders, which contain text files for each individual day. A file path for one of these may look like: `.../journal/2021/09/16.txt`. Create a few entries that have some text!
- Take a look at some of the extra resources :)